Alright! We're going to start getting into
adding the ability to add and update a
Pet. I'm going to sign this issued to
myself to indicate that I am working on it
now. Now there's a couple things I want
to do in this video. Specifically, we're
going to look at using Model attributes.
Let's take a look at the
implementation here. Specifically,
this is a PetController that they've
added. There's adding in a couple
things here. They're using the Model
Attribute annotation. I didn't show this
in the course. I don't think I showed
this in the course. I could be wrong on
that but I don't believe I did. But this
is a way to basically, whenever I come in
to this controller, I want to be able to
add in these attributes to the Model so
it automatically adds it in. So it's a
special annotation inside of Spring.
What we want to do here is I'm going to
actually and then we also have an InitBinder. We will talk about the Pet
Validator in a future video. So I'm going
to add in these three methods here. Again
I'm going to shamelessly cut and paste from
the Spring stuff here. Let's come over
to IntelliJ. You can see that we
don't have a PetController yet so let's
go ahead and create him.
Say okay and now we're going to add in
these here so bring ModelAttribute in
PetType, Owner.
Collection is
okay. PathVariable, InitBinder. So now
let's come back over here. We need to
finish mapping this over. We'll grab
that from the Spring guys. I'm just
creating a stub of the Controller at
this point. Primarily in this video, I
want to talk about this Model
Attribute. So that's a little
unique. We have not seen that yet.
Did I create a service for pets? Yes, we
do.
Our PetService. So here, we want. I'm finally a
little bit different model. So rather
than bringing the repository directly, I
do have a service layer which is a very
common thing to do.
You can see that that is unhappy so
let's go ahead and add the constructor
as well.
And our models using a Long not an int .
Our petService does not have
findPetTypes. Let's take a look at that.
Actually I double checked this.
We want Collection PetType and what
we can do here is rather... Don't know if
we're going to need PetService but we
do have a PetTypeService.
We do it we'll findAll their on our PetTypeService
so let's do this.
Let's double check our
implementation of it. The PetType
Service.
We do have the findAll so
that is going to go through and return
the petTypes.  I don't think
I can explain it clearly. What this is
going to do is we're going to get a
Collection of PetType to types.
That attribute is probably going to be used
by Thymeleaf. Otherwise, I'd rename
it to pet types which make a little more
sense to me. But, we'll go ahead and
follow what the Spring guys have done
here. You can see that IntelliJ is
highlighting petService because it's
not being used. Not yet. We may need it
and an implementation if we don't use it
as we implement these various methods.
So I may refactor it up. But our forms
that we are working with pets for petTypes, we're going to have a drop down
list so we're populating that as a
reference. There's a pretty common use
case for model attributes where when we
are working with pets we're going to want
petTypes available to our view layer so
that this automatically puts that list
out there for us. And then also, the
way this is set up for the mapping, we
are going to go in owners ownerId. So
whenever we come in here, we know that we
are going to want an Owner object also
available to the view so that is going
to also make that available. So again,
just to reiterate, I just wanted to show
you the ModelAttribute. Basically,
whenever we hit any controller method,
you can see I haven't implemented anything yet.
Whenever we hit any controller method on
this, this is going to get populated to that
Model. so these are four common themes.
As we're working with controller methods
inside the PetController, we're going to
want petTypes all the time and then
we're going to want the Owner object all
the time. So, rather than having to repeat
these operations and each controller
method, now Spring MVC is going to
provide that to us. So this does not
complete this GitHub issue but I am
going to commit it under issue number 56.
So I come in here and add that.
Now if I just do pound 56,
so will reference this
issue. And when I do a commit and push,
now this commit will be associated with
that GitHub ticket. Now coming up, we are
going to start implementing the options
for the PetController as well. So we'll
start getting those mappings cooking so
we can maintain pets in our pet store.